Welcome to the final
week of our course
on parallel functional
programming with Java.
Now that we've covered the
basic and advanced features
of the CompletableFutures
framework,
we showcase these features
in two case study apps.
The first app shows how advanced
CompletableFuture methods can
be applied to a program that
crawls web pages recursively
and counts the number of images
it encounters on each page.
These web pages can
either reside locally
on a computer's file
system, or can be
accessed remotely via the web.
We next demonstrate advanced
CompletableFuture methods
in the context of yet another
variant of the ImageStreamGang
app.
The ImageStreamGang app we
covered in a previous week used
the parallel streams framework
to synchronously download,
transform, store, and display
images obtained from remote web
servers.
This variant of
the ImageStreamGang
app we cover this week
uses the CompletableFutures
framework to asynchronously
download, transform, store,
and display images obtained
from remote web servers.
This variant also shows how
to combine CompletableFutures
with sequential
streams to provide
a powerful and well-structured
reactive programming model,
where streams guide the
overall flow of control
and CompletableFutures
efficiently perform
asynchronous
operations in parallel.
Both case studies
demonstrate key benefits
of the CompletableFutures
framework.
For example, this framework
enables the forking,
chaining, and joining of
asynchronous operations
in a relatively intuitive way.
In particular, it enables
asynchronous programs
to appear something like
synchronous programs,
because dependent actions
can be chained together
by the so-called fluent
interface programming model.
In addition,
CompletableFutures often
perform better than parallel
streams, and are certainly
more flexible in their
use of thread pools,
since they aren't limited
to just the ForkJoinPool,
but instead can run in both
predefined and user-defined
thread pools that conform to
the Java executor interface.
However, there
are some downsides
to using the
CompletableFutures framework.
In particular,
CompletableFutures
are harder to program
than parallel streams,
due to the fact that the
asynchrony patterns required
to program them are less
intuitive to most developers,
compared with the synchrony
patterns supported
by parallel streams.
As usual, it's essential
to know the best practices
and patterns in order to program
CompletableFutures effectively.